Good afternoon, everyone.
Thank you so much for coming to
today's session on Core Image.
My name is David Hayward,
and the mission of Core Image is
to provide a powerful yet simple
image processing framework for your
applications to take advantage of.
We'll be talking today about
some additions we provided
to Core Image on Mac OS Lion,
but even more so,
it's my true pleasure today to talk
about how you can take advantage of
Core Image in the exciting platform
of iOS devices and applications.
So, on with the slides.
So what will we be talking about today?
I'll be introducing you
today to Core Image on iOS 5.
We'll be talking about
some of the key concepts,
the basic architecture,
the basic classes that you'll
be using in Core Image,
as well as some platform-specific
details of Core Image on iOS.
After that, we'll go into deeper detail
on how you can really use
Core Image in your application,
how to initialize Core Image data types,
how to filter images,
and how to render them.
There's a lot of good detail there.
And lastly, we'll be talking about some
new additions to Core Image,
which we're calling image
analysis operations.
So, first off,
introducing Core Image in iOS 5.
Here's the basic concept of
Core Image for those of you in the room
who are maybe new to this technology.
The basic premise is that you can
use Core Image to filter an image
to perform per pixel operations.
In a very simple example,
like the one I have presented here,
we have an original image,
and we're going to apply a filter to it,
in this case the sepia tone filter,
and produce a new result image.
So that's a very simple example,
but as it turns out,
you can use Core Image to chain
together multiple filters.
And this will allow you to produce much
more complex and interesting effects.
As an example here,
we start with the image,
we apply sepia tone to it,
we then apply a hue
adjustment filter to it,
which turns it from a brownish
tone image to a blue tone image.
And then we apply another filter,
which will increase the contrast of the
image to produce a more artistic effect.
You can conceptually think of an
intermediate image existing in
between each of these filters.
But in order to improve performance,
what Core Image does is to
concatenate these filters.
Again, the key concept here is that we
implicitly eliminate intermediate
buffers to improve performance.
There are several other image
processing type operations,
optimizations that we
do on our filter chain.
For example, both the hue adjustment and
the contrast adjustment,
can be equally well represented
as a color matrix in RGB space.
So what one of the optimizations
Core Image can do is
convert those to matrices,
and since two matrices
can be concatenated,
we can concatenate those into one matrix.
And again,
this further improves performance and
actually improves precision as well,
reducing the amount of intermediate math.
So now let me go in a little bit of
detail about the basic architecture
of where Core Image fits into
the rest of the operating system.
The basic architecture is that
we have applications at the top,
and those applications are using
image data types on the system,
such as Core Graphics data structures,
Core Video structures,
or Image.io images that are returned
from the Image.io framework.
You can then input these into
the Core Image framework.
Core Image has a set of built-in filters,
which you can then combine
in new and interesting ways,
and those are optimized
by the Core Image runtime.
The Core Image runtime has
two basic ways of rendering.
One is a GPU rendering path,
and the other is a CPU rendering path.
The GPU rendering path is
based on OpenGL ES 2.0 on iOS,
and our CPU rendering path is
based on optimized CPU code,
which will run using libdispatch to
take advantage of multi-core devices.
So now that you have a
basic understanding of the
architecture of Core Image,
let me talk about what the
classes that are available
to your applications to use.
There are three main classes that
you can use in your application.
The first is the CI Filter class.
The CI Filter is a mutable
object that represents an
effect that you want to apply.
The CI Filter has multiple
one or more input parameters,
and those input parameters can be either
images or other numerical parameters.
And the output of a filter is a new
image that's produced based on the
current state of the filter at the
time that the output is requested.
The second key data type is a CI image.
A CI image is an immutable object that
represents the recipe for an image,
for how to produce that image.
And it can represent either a file
that's come just directly from disk,
or the output of a filter
or chain of filters.
And the third key data
type is a CI context.
The CI context is the objects
through which you will render
your images to your output.
And as I alluded to earlier,
the CI context can either
be CPU-based or GPU-based.
And we'll talk in some detail about that.
One thing to keep in mind is both GPU and
CPU context have their advantages.
Both have their uses in your application.
And there's, for example,
CPUs generally have the improved fidelity
because they're fully IEEE compliant.
The GPUs-based context have the advantage
of performance in most situations.
CPU has the advantage that when you're
using Core Image to render using the CPU,
you can do other operations on
the foreground task while you do
rendering on the background thread.
The GPU has the counter advantage
that you can offload the effort
from the GPU to do other tasks.
We'll give some examples later
on in the presentation of when
you would want to use CPU and
GPU in actual use case scenarios.
So as I mentioned when
I first came up on stage,
it's very, very easy to do powerful image
processing in Core Image.
And just to show you how easy it is,
I can show you in just four bullet items
how to do rendering using Core Image.
The first step is we want to
create a Core Image object.
We call CI image,
image with URL or contents with URL,
and that instantiates a CI image object.
The next step,
we want to create a filter object.
We call CI filter, filter with name,
and in this example,
we'll be creating a sepia tone filter.
The next thing we do on that filter
is set some default parameters.
We're going to set two
parameters on this filter.
The first one is the input image,
and the second one is the amount of
a sepia tone effect we want to apply.
The third thing we want to
do is to create a CI context.
We call context with options nil to
get the default context behavior.
And fourth, we want to render the output
image through that context.
First thing we do here is to get
the output image of the filter,
and in this very simple example,
we're going to be creating a new CG image
from the results of that filter by
asking the context to create a CG image.
So that's how simple it is.
We'll have some more interesting
examples later on in the presentation.
As I mentioned before,
Core Image has a set of
built-in filters on iOS.
In the seed we have today,
these are the set of filters
that we have available.
The filters fall into
several different categories.
We have filters for adjusting
color values in images,
such as hue adjust and sepia tone.
We also have filters for adjusting
the geometry of an image,
such as applying a fine transform
to an image or cropping an
image or straightening an image.
And also we have a filter for
doing composite operations,
which allows you to combine
two images into a third image.
Next thing I'd like to talk
about are some of the key
differences between iOS and Mac OS.
So in both cases, on iOS and Mac OS,
we have a set of built-in filters.
On iOS, in our current release,
we have 16 built-in filters,
and those are chosen to give you good
performance and also good results
for photo adjustment operations.
On Mac OS,
we actually have 130 built-in filters,
plus the ability to add your own
developer-provided Thank you.
The Core API on iOS and
Mac OS is very much the same.
The three key data types
that I mentioned earlier,
CI Filter, CI Image, and CI Context,
are the same on iOS and Mac OS.
Mac OS does have some
additional data types,
such as CI Kernel and CI Filter Shape,
which are useful if you're
creating your own custom filters.
In terms of performance,
there's also much in common
between iOS and Mac OS.
In both cases,
we do render time optimizations
of your filter graph in order to
produce the best possible performance.
And lastly,
there's on both iOS and Mac OS,
Core Image supports both
CPU and GPU based rendering.
There is a subtle
difference in that on iOS,
Core Image will use OpenGL ES 2.0,
whereas on Mac OS,
Core Image will use OpenGL.
So now that we've given
a basic introduction,
I'd like to pass the
stage over to Chendi,
who will be giving a demonstration
of how to use Core Image.
So this is an extremely simple demo app.
Basically,
it consists of a single UI image view.
And if I tap on the screen,
I have another view controller
that comes up as a UI popover.
And what happens is every time
I adjust one of these sliders,
they're attached to the
input of a particular filter.
So if I adjust brightness up and down,
the filter will render a new CG image,
wrap that in a UI image,
and set that as the contents
of your UI image view.
And so this happens all in real time,
and it concatenates the filters.
It runs pretty quickly.
So I can also adjust it
to be some setting I like.
Say like this.
Hit Save.
Then I can exit to the Photos app.
and my photo is saved just like I saw it.
And that's about it.
Back to you, David.
So now that we have a tease,
let's talk a little bit more detail
about how you can really take advantage
of Core Image in your application.
So I'll be talking in three key areas:
how to initialize a CI image,
how to filter a CI image,
and how to render an image.
So, first step we'll be talking
about is initializing a CI image.
There are three basic ways
to initialize a CI image.
The first is to initialize an
image based on any of the image
I/O supported image file formats.
You can do that by either
calling the CI image class init
with URL or image with data.
In both cases,
you're passing either a URL or some
data that contains either JPEG or
PNG or other types of image content.
The second way to initialize a CI image
is with other key image data formats that
are available in our operating system.
For example, you can initialize an
image with a CG image.
You can also, on iOS,
you can initialize an image
with a CV pixel buffer,
and this allows you to work using
Core Image in conjunction with
a Core Video-based pipeline.
On Mac OS,
there's a subtle difference in that the
way to work with Core Video data types
is to call Image with CV Image Buffer.
They're conceptually very similar,
it's just slightly different data types.
The other option that's available on
Mac OS is calling Image with iOS Surface.
The end result is a CI image
in any of these cases that
you can then apply filters to.
The third and last way that you can
create a CI image is with raw pixel data.
And this is useful in many situations.
You can call image with bitmap data,
you pass in NSData that
represents your pixel data,
and you specify at that time
what the bytes per row are,
and what the pixel format
and what the color space is.
So on the subject of color space,
let me talk a little bit about
color management in Core Image.
So on Mac OS, a CI image can be tagged
with any color space.
This is provided using the
Core Graphics Data Type CG color space.
If a CI image is tagged
with a color space,
then all the pixels in that image
are converted to a linear working
space before filters are applied.
On iOS it is slightly different.
A CI image can be tagged
with device RGB color space.
And if it is such tagged,
then the pixels and images
are gamma corrected to the
linear space before filtering.
One important option that we had,
if you saw in the previous slide,
the initializing methods
have an options parameter,
is an option called
KCI Image Color Space.
And you can use this option to override
the default color space on a CI image.
One particular value that you may
be interested in is you can set the
value for this key to be NSNULL if
you want to turn off color management.
While in most situations you want
to have color management turned on,
or in the case of iOS having
the gamma correction turned on,
there are situations where you
want to work your entire rendering
pipeline without color management,
perhaps to improve performance
or to give a different effect.
Another thing that's very interesting
about CI images on iOS is that we now
have support for CI image metadata.
There's a new method on CI image
that allows you to get a metadata
properties dictionary from a CI image.
The method is very obvious.
It's just properties,
and it returns an NSDictionary.
The contents of this dictionary is
the same contents as you would get if
you were to call the image IO function
CG image source copy properties at index.
So inside that dictionary will be
sub dictionaries for TIFF metadata,
EXIF metadata, and other properties that
can come from an image file.
There's one piece of metadata
that is particularly important
that you should be aware of,
and that is the property that's
in this dictionary under the key
KCG image property orientation.
All modern cameras support
pictures being taken in any of
the four possible orientations,
and when they produce an image,
embedded in the metadata of that image
is a numerical value that tells you
which orientation the camera was in.
In the vast majority of situations,
your application will want to present
the image in the desired direction of up.
So you can use this orientation
property to correctly display
the image to the user.
There's some other important aspects
of the orientation which we'll
discuss later on the presentation,
so keep this in mind.
Another great feature of this new
metadata properties is it's all fully
automatic if you use the image with
URL or image with data initializers.
If you are initializing your
images using other data types,
then you can specify the
properties on your own by using
the KCI image properties option.
So now we know quite a bit about
instantiating an image object.
The next important step is
applying filters to that image.
So let's talk about that in
a little bit more detail.
So as I mentioned a few slides back,
there's a different set of
built-in filters on Mac OS and iOS.
And in both cases,
our set of filters that are
supported will grow in the future.
Your application may want to query
at runtime the set of available
filters that are available on that OS.
This API is a class method on CIFilter,
and it's called CIFilter
Filters in Name with Category.
In most cases, if you want all the
filters that are built in,
you would pass in the
category KCI filter -- sorry,
KCI category built in.
There's other categories if you
just want to get the set of geometry
filters or other subclasses of filters.
The result of this call
is an array of NSStrings,
the name of all the
filters that are built in.
Once you have the name of a filter,
then you can use that name to
instantiate a filter object.
As I showed a few slides back,
you can call filter with name
CI Sepia tone as an example.
Once you have a filter instance,
you may want to know what are
the possible parameters that
you can set on this filter.
Well, you can go and look that up
on our online documentation,
but there's also some runtime
documentation of each filter's
parameters that is available to you.
There's a call you can make
called Filter Attributes,
and this returns a data structure that
gives you information about each of
the input parameters on the filter.
For example,
it gives you the name of each input,
it gives you the expected
type of each input.
For example,
if the expected parameter is an
image or a vector or a number.
And it also gives you, wherever possible,
the common values that are
important for that input value.
For example, it'll give you the default
value for that input,
or the identity value,
or the minimum or the maximum value.
When Chendi gave the demo a minute ago,
he was showing you some sliders
that were adjusting a filter.
What you can do is you can use this
API to determine what the minimum
maximum values for that slider should be.
So now that we know a
little bit about filters,
let's talk about setting
parameters on them.
This is the next step.
Input parameters on filters are specified
using standard key value conventions.
So we can call set value for key.
Most filters take an input
image as one of their keys,
so we have a common key for
that called KCI input image key.
For other keys, you call set value and
let's say a number.
And in the case of sepia tone,
we want to set the amount
or intensity of sepia tone.
Once you've set all the input parameters,
you can ask the filter
for its output image.
The way this is traditionally done
on Mac OS is you call cifilter
valueForKey outputImageKey.
And this works on both platforms.
On iOS, however,
we've actually implemented the
output image as a property.
And that gives you two other ways
that you can get the output image.
You can either call filterOutputImage
or filter.outputImage.
These are all functionally equivalent.
It's just a question of what
your preferred coding style is.
Now, these three previous
things that I've mentioned,
instantiating a filter,
setting the inputs,
and getting the output,
there's a shortcut which allows
you to do all of those on one line.
And I'm using that shortcut convention
in these slides because it gives us a
little bit more room on the presentation.
The idea behind this shortcut
is you just call ciFilter,
filter with name,
and then right after that
you specify keys and values.
And then you can specify a nil
terminated array of keys and values.
And lastly, at the end of the,
after the closing bracket,
we call output image to
get the output image.
So that's a nice compact representation
for applying a filter to an image.
So again, as I mentioned,
this is the one line of code to
apply a single filter to an image.
As I mentioned in the introduction,
however,
you can chain together multiple filters.
So how do we do that?
Well, it's actually the same idea.
It's very, very simple.
The idea is we just
chain in another filter,
but now the input to the second filter
is the output from the first filter.
And that's it.
One important thing to keep in
mind is that no pixel processing
is actually occurring while
you're building this filter chain.
All the real work of rendering the images
is deferred until a render is requested.
And that brings us up to the third
section of this introduction,
which is more detail about how to render.
And to discuss that, I'd like to bring
Chendi back up on stage.
Thanks, David.
All right, at this point,
you know how to create a
filter chain and get an output
image from your last filter.
So what can you do with this?
As we saw in the earlier demo,
an easy way to get it on screen
is to use a UI image view and
set the image as the contents.
You can also save the
result to the photo library.
And if you're writing an
image manipulation app,
this will be a pretty common
operation for your users.
Another method of drawing on screen
is using a CA Eagle layer-backed view.
This is actually more performant
than using a UI image view.
And it's similar to how most OpenGL apps
on the App Store render their content.
And lastly, we're going to discuss how to
run it to a CV pixel buffer.
You can use this rendering method
to use Core Image to process video
frames in a larger AV foundation
or a Core Video-based pipeline.
So if you want to set a UI image view's
contents to your rendered CI image,
you need a context and you need
the image you want to render.
With one line,
you can just call context createCgImage
from rect with the area of interest
cgRect that you want to render.
This will give you a new CG image ref.
Now,
you can wrap this easily in a UI image
for display in your image view.
Also note that since you have a CG image,
you can also use normal Core graphics
function calls and also set the
contents of a base CA layer,
for instance,
anything that you would normally
use the CG image ref for.
One thing to note is that there
is an orientation flag that you
might want to set for UI image.
When you take a photo with
your iPhone or iPad 2,
and if it's in landscape or upside down,
there's going to be a metadata
flag or metadata key that
says what the orientation is.
Most SLRs and point-and-shoots also
have information similar to this.
Because of this,
you're going to want to map the
CG orientation to the equivalent
UI image orientation enum so
the UI image view orients the
image properly in the image view.
[Transcript missing]
So now that you know that,
how do you save to the photo library?
Well, the code for that is identical
with the CPU context as it
is with the GPU context.
You call the same method,
createCgImage from rect
to get the CG image ref.
Then you can use assets library framework
to call writeImageToSavePhotosAlbum
to save your image to the photo album.
And those two or three lines are all you
need to do to save to the photo roll.
The other method of rendering I discussed
is CA Eagle Layer Backed Views.
So it turns out if you use a
UI image view to display your image,
there's going to be implicit
call to GL read pixels every
time you create the CG image.
And after you set the
contents of the UI image view,
Core Animation has to do
another GPU upload to get the
contents into its own memory.
So this turns out to be
slower than you want.
In our example app,
since we weren't doing that
complex of a filter chain,
it was still pretty performant.
But if you've got any sort of
complex filter chain or large images,
it might be too slow.
When you have stuff like that,
you're going to want to use a
CA Eagle Layer to display the images.
And again, this is how most OpenGL games
display the content.
So what you do is you
create a CA Eagle Layer,
which has a corresponding
Eagle context that contains the
frame buffer and the render buffer.
One thing to note is you must
create your CI context with
the exact same Eagle context
that backs the CA Eagle Layer.
Normally in an open GL game,
what happens is you'll
issue a bunch of GL code,
a bunch of GL calls to draw stuff,
and then when you're ready to display,
you call glBindRenderBuffer and
then egoContextPresentRenderBuffer.
For Core Image, it's very similar.
Instead of the GL calls,
you set up your filter chain
and finally call the new method
contextDrawImageAtPointFromRect.
This will draw your CI image onto the
render buffer for that ego context.
You're not done at this point
because you still have to display it,
so you still have to call the
GLBindRenderBuffer and present render
buffer like you would in a normal game.
And to demonstrate that,
I have a demo app.
So in this app,
I'm using AV Foundation to
stream live video from the front
camera as CV pixel buffers.
I then wrap the CV pixel buffers in
a CI image and use the code from the
previous slide to display on screen.
And just like the first demo,
I can use the UI popover to bring
up a little bunch of sliders
and adjust stuff in real time,
like contrast, saturation, temperature,
and so on.
And this all happens in real time,
and that's about it.
So, yeah.
And the last method I'm going to discuss
today is rendering to a CVPixel buffer.
The API for this is pretty simple.
It's similar to the createCG method,
except you have to have a CVPixel
buffer to already render into.
Once you have your
context and your image,
call renderToCVPixelBuffer with the
appropriate bounds and color space.
And once you have this,
it allows you to use Core Image to
process individual frames within a
larger Core Video AV Foundation pipeline.
And to demonstrate this,
I have a slightly modified demo
to show you.
So this is identical
to the previous demo,
except I have an additional
record button here.
So when I hit record,
instead of rendering
directly to the screen,
my app first renders
to a CV pixel buffer,
passes that on to an H.264 encoder,
and also uses that same
image to display on screen.
So I can hit record,
adjust stuff like hue, tint, temperature,
saturation, just like before.
Stop recording.
If I go to my Photos library, yeah,
so you can see all the live edits
I made show up in the encoded video.
So yeah, that's it.
So I'll start with the previous
demo that didn't do the recording.
The AV Foundation callback
looks like this.
Basically, we grab the CV Pixel Buffer
from the sample buffer,
create a CI image around it,
and we turn off color matching.
So we pass in NSNull for the color space.
Now, CV Pixel Buffers come in
rotated by 90 degrees,
so we have to rotate it for
display on screen by applying a
CG affine transform of 90 degrees.
We passed the image
through our set of filters.
In this case,
the six sliders corresponded to
inputs on three separate filters.
Once we have our result image,
we can draw directly to the
GLES context with the draw
image in Rect from Rect Call,
and then present it to the screen.
And for the second demo,
It's slightly more complex.
There is a bunch of AV Foundation code
I'm not going to include.
It's mostly boilerplate code
to set up your encoder and
append sample buffers to that.
But basically what you
have now is the same stuff.
You have the pixel buffer.
In this case,
since we're rendering to a pixel buffer,
we set up a CVPixelBufferPool to
handle the buffers more efficiently.
And you can read more about
that in the AV Foundation docs.
Create the CG image again
with the null color space.
Filter the image.
And since we're not
rendering to the screen yet,
we don't have to rotate the
image until we finally render.
So we initially render
to a CVPixelBuffer here.
We wrap the CVE fix buffer
in another CI image,
rotate it,
and we draw the rotated one onto screen,
and then we append the non-rotated
one to our AV asset writer.
And that's how you can encode video and
display it to screen at the same time.
Back to slides.
So there's a couple of key performance
best practices to keep in mind.
Firstly is that CI images and
CI filters are auto-released.
So if you're doing a complex or long
chain of filtering and rendering,
you're going to want to wrap your stuff,
your code, in auto-release pools.
That way you can reduce memory
pressure in case a CI image is
holding onto a large image in
the background or something.
When you're creating
your CVPixel buffers,
try to include the key
KCVPixelBufferIOSurfaceProperties key.
This creates the CVPixelBuffer
with the iOSurface backing,
and that allows us to do some
secret sauce stuff in the background
to make the rendering faster.
The next point is very key.
Do not create a CI context
every time you render.
That's equivalent to writing
an OpenGL app and creating a
GL context for every frame.
And CI context generally
include a Eagle context,
so this is going to really slow
down your app if you do so.
Another point is that
because Core Animation and
Core Image both use the GPU,
they could contend for
the same resources.
So you should try avoiding
scheduling CA animations while you're
performing CI rendering on the GPU.
If you've written enough
Core Animation code,
you know that once you have a certain
number of layers or animations,
it starts to get a bit stuttery
when things get too complex.
And this will only get worse if you
try to render with Core Image at
the same time as these animations.
So either use a CPU context to
render when you have animations,
or just schedule a very simple animation
or no animation at all on screen while
you're performing your rendering.
Note again that both contexts
have maximum image sizes.
You can query the sizes with
the input image maximum size
and output image maximum size
calls on the context for iOS.
Again,
this is 2K by 2K on older iOS hardware,
4K by 4K on the iPad 2,
and the CPU context
supports up to 8K by 8K.
And the last point is
pretty important too.
Performance generally scales
linearly with the number of output
destination pixels you have to render.
So if you have an iPad 2,
which is a 1024 by 768 screen,
there's no point rendering a 4
megapixel image and then displaying
that on screen scaled down.
What you should do is try to
render a screen size image
for optimal performance.
And when you're performing your final
save to disk or to photo library,
you can use the CPU context to render
the large image in the background thread.
And to get smaller images,
you can either use Core Graphics
or Image IO that have APIs to give
you either thumbnails or cropped
sub-reqs of your current image.
And with that,
I'm going to give the mic back to David.
Thank you very much, Chendi.
So the third section of today's
discussion I'd like to talk about is
something we're calling image analysis.
Previously we've been talking
about image filtering,
and filtering has the properties that
it's very cheap to set up a filter chain
and all the work is done at render time.
Image analysis, however,
goes beyond those normal constraints.
The idea is that for a
large class of operations,
you may need to read the entire
image in order to figure out
what you want to do to the image.
So we have two types of image
analysis tools that are now
available in Core Image that
we're introducing to you on iOS.
One is face detection,
and the second is auto enhance,
and we'll talk about them in that order.
So first, let's talk about
Core Image face detection.
So we all have images in our
photo library with faces in them,
and one very nice thing to do is to
know where those faces are in the image.
Note that face detection is
a different problem than face
identification or face recognition.
Today we're talking about face detection.
And there's a lot of stuff you can do if
you know where the faces are in an image.
There's lots of interesting image
optimizations you can do if you know
how to crop or improve the quality of an
image if you know where the faces are.
So, how can we do that?
Well, we have a new Core Image based
face detection API.
And this API is available and identical
on both iOS 5 and Mac OS Lion.
It's a very simple to use API.
It has two classes.
First class is a CI detector,
and the second class is
the result of a detection,
which is a CI feature,
specifically CI face feature.
We've designed this API to
be feature upgradable,
while today we just have face features.
You can imagine that that could
grow in the future to different
types of detected objects.
So, how do we use this API?
As I said, it's very simple.
First thing we do is create a detector.
We call a CI detector, detector of type,
and this time we specify that
we want the one and only type,
which is detector type face.
And at this time,
we can also specify some options.
So, what options are important?
Well, there's a very important option,
which allows you to tell the detector
whether to be fast or thorough.
Face detection,
like many problems in life,
you can choose between having the best
answer in a long amount of time or a
good answer in a shorter amount of time.
And while in many cases the low accuracy,
high performance is suitable,
there may be certain applications
that want to take longer
and produce a better answer,
for example, finding smaller faces.
So you have that choice in your
application to direct the detector
whether to be fast or thorough.
Second step is to search for
the features in an image.
We pass in the detector
object we created,
and we pass in the image we
want to look for features in.
And we can specify options,
and the result is an array
of detected features.
In this case,
the options are also important.
In the case of faces,
the detector needs to know what
direction is up in the image in
order to look for upright faces.
So this is a very important property.
The way you pass it in is via the key
value KCI detector image orientation.
In the vast majority of situations,
the value you're going to pass in
for this key is the orientation
metadata that came from the image.
So in this case, we're doing two things.
We're getting the image properties and
getting the orientation key from that,
and then passing that in as the value for
the key CI detector image orientation.
And again, the purpose of this is to tell
the detector what direction up is.
Once you call the detector and
it returns an array of features,
you can loop over those features
to do whatever you want.
In this very simple code example,
we're going to do a few things.
First thing we're going to do is
ask the -- we're going to loop
over the features F in the array.
We're going to ask the
feature F for its bounds.
All features have bounds,
and those bounds are a CG rectangle
in the Core Image coordinate space,
which is lower left-hand based.
So in this example,
we're just going to print that
to the console using NSLog.
The other thing we can do on
a face feature is query it
for interesting sub-features,
such as the left eye location,
the right eye location,
and the mouth location.
And again, this is very simple.
The CI face feature class has properties,
such as has left eye position,
and that returns a Boolean.
And if that is true,
then you can query for the
property left eye position,
and that returns a point
with an X and a Y value.
So again, very,
very simple in your application.
So to show this in practice,
and we'll be showing this
on both Mac OS and iOS,
I'm going to welcome up to the
stage Piotr Maj to talk about how
to use our face detection API.
David.
So I would like to show you today how to
take advantage of new CI detector API,
first on Mac OS, then on iOS.
So the best way to experiment
with graphical filters on
Mac OS is Quartz Composer.
So let me show you how to wire up
simple Quartz Composer composition,
which performs face detection.
As you see on the output image,
it consists of the background
image and face frames,
one frame on top of each
face detected in this image.
So, how does this composition look like?
First, let's do the background.
The background is simple.
We just start with input image and
pass it directly to a billboard patch,
which is responsible for
displaying the image on screen.
That was quick and easy.
Now, how to draw the faces,
the face frames on top of faces.
To do this, we need to use a new patch
in Quartz Composer on Lion,
which is called Detector.
It's located here.
And it takes image as an input,
entry times,
An array of face features.
We can look at it by pointing
mouse over these features.
As we see, we have four faces,
four elements of the structure.
The rest of the job is done in the loop.
represented by iterator patch.
I will now jump into this iterator
patch by double-clicking on it.
Let's make it bigger.
It may look scary,
but actually it's very simple.
All it comes down to is we
extract from each face feature
its individual components.
So here we extract X position, Y, width,
and height.
We can look at these values.
I don't know if you see it,
but this value is pretty low.
It's 0.26 for X value.
Why is it so low?
It is so low because detector
patch uses Quartz Composer's
normalized coordinate system,
which is from minus one to one.
So in order to use it on real image and
to see actually the result on the screen,
we need to convert it to
CG image coordinate system,
which is pixel based.
This job is done in a Core Image filter,
which uses some simple kernel.
To first do the math,
here is the part which
converts coordinates to pixels.
And it's also responsible for
drawing the square on top of face.
And the output of this filter is sent
directly to the billboard patch and the
face frame is drawn on the second frame.
We repeat this step for every
face we found in the image,
and this produces...
The output image.
So this works on still images,
but there is absolutely no reason why
we could not attach video input here.
So it's tracking me in real time.
That's the Mac OS part.
Now for next demo,
I need to switch to my iPad.
OK, here it is.
This is a simple app which
allows me to pick an image.
And we have faces detected in
just a fraction of a second.
Two faces or even five.
So this simple app.
And how does the code look like?
The interesting part starts
in ImagePicker controller.
Picker did finish picking
media with info method.
This is a callback from UI ImagePicker.
And we get reference to image
user chosen from the library,
and perform the detection in detect
faces and draw face boxes method.
Please note that I sent
this job to the background.
It's good practice to offload
this job to the background,
not giving the chance for UI to freeze.
So let's jump to this method
and see what's happening here.
First,
we create CI image from our UI image.
Then we instantiate CI detector
with accuracy level of our choice.
Then we perform the actual detection
by invoking features in image method.
This method returns an array of faces.
Over which we can iterate
to compose our final image.
Our final image will be done
using only Core Image filters.
So, for each face,
I create face box or face frame for image
in this face box image for face method.
And using source over compositing filter,
I attach this reddish square
on top of background image.
I repeat this step for every face.
So, finally, every face finds its
way to background image.
If you're curious how I create
this reddish square using
only Core Image filters,
here it is.
I use CI constant color generator
filter which generates constant color,
like its name says.
This color is on infinite dimensions.
So, infinity is probably too
much for our purpose.
So, we'll use another filter, CI crop,
to crop this infinite color
to reflect the face bounce.
Here, input rectangle, face bounce.
And we just use output image property
of CI filter to get this box.
Now, having this image ready, we can use,
as David showed in presentation,
CI context, default CI context to
render this to CG image.
And now it's trivial to just put it as
an input for UI image and UI image view.
What's important?
This code, the detection part,
you could copy paste to
Mac OS application and it
will look exactly the same.
It's pretty easy.
So that's how it looks on Mac OS.
I have one bonus demo to show.
So here I am.
But not only me.
Thank you very much.
David?
I want to give thanks to
the AV Foundation folks who
did the fun mustache demo,
and we happily stole it for
our presentation as well.
So that's face detection.
And as I mentioned a little earlier,
if you know where faces are in an image,
there's lots of other
interesting things you can do,
including help improve the image based
on whether faces are present or not.
And that brings us to the next
subject of our discussion today,
which is automatically
enhancing an image.
This was one of the things that
we demonstrated on Monday where we
were talking about some of the new
features in iOS 5 where we have
one-touch improvement to your images
to produce a better image than you
would necessarily get by default.
Great thing is we've actually
provided this as an API for
all of you guys to use as well.
So how does auto enhance work?
Well, like other problems of this class,
we need to analyze the
entire image first.
And the idea is we analyze the
entire image for its histogram,
for its face region contents,
and also for other bits of
metadata that are present.
Once we have analyzed
for that information,
the Auto Enhancement API will
return to you an array of CI filters
that are custom designed to be
applied to the image in question.
Let me just repeat this one more time.
So the array of filters that we return
have had all the input parameters set up
and customized for that specific image
to produce the best possible output.
So, how does this API work?
Well, again, as I said before,
we return an array of filters.
These are some of the filters
that we apply today when we
are doing auto enhancement.
One of the first filters that
we apply based on our image
analysis is CI red eye correction.
And this in itself is a very
complex problem to be able to
both detect and repair red eye
artifacts that are sometimes red,
sometimes amber, sometimes white,
that result from camera flashes.
This is a very, very interesting problem,
and we've provided that as part of
the auto enhancement capabilities.
Some of the other filters that we apply
is a filter called CI face balance,
and this filter allows the auto
enhancement to adjust the color of an
image to produce pleasing skin tones.
Next, CI Vibrance,
which increases the saturation
of an image when appropriate
without distorting skin tones,
which is also important.
It's worth mentioning at this point that
some of these things like vibrance may
be familiar to users of like Aperture.
These are algorithms that we worked
in conjunction with those teams to
use the best imaging technology we
have at Apple to improve images,
and we've brought them to
you as part of this API.
Next filter that we can
apply is CI Tone Curve,
and this is a filter that allows
you to adjust the image contrast.
And then also CI highlights and shadows,
and we use that to bring up the shadow
detail of images when appropriate.
So what are some examples of how
this looks in actual practice?
So we have three images,
each of which have some degree of issues
with them in different types of areas.
This first image is a
great photo of a girl,
but if you look at the skin tones,
it looks a little greenish.
So we can actually improve that by
using the face balance to improve that
to make the skin tones more natural.
The next photo, we had nice content,
but the shadows were a little dark,
and we can make the image more
lively by bringing up the shadows.
And in this last photo,
I'm hoping you guys can see,
we've got a case of red eye,
which is very,
very hard to repair usually,
but with our red eye filter,
we can make that problem go away.
So that's how it works in practice.
Let me talk to you in some detail about
how you can use this in your application.
So it's a very simple API,
first and foremost.
The API is one call called
Auto Adjustment Filters with Options.
And you pass in an options dictionary.
And some of these options are
actually pretty important.
You may, for example,
not want to just do all the adjustments,
which is what we return by default.
But you may want to just do Red Eye or
just do the other auto enhancements,
depending on what your
application desires.
So you can pass in either
KCI Auto Adjust Enhance
to either true or false,
or KCI Auto Red Eye to false,
if you just want to perform
the adjustment filters.
Another very important option is to
tell the auto-adjustment API what
direction up is in your image.
You do that, as I showed before,
in the face detection example by
asking the image for its properties,
getting the properties KCG image
property orientation key,
and then passing that in
as an option with the key
CI detector image orientation.
You need to do this if you want
to get the best possible results
out of the auto-enhancement.
If you do not pass it in,
then the detector may not find the face,
and we will be able to
do some adjustments,
but we won't be able to necessarily
find red eyes or do skin balance.
The next thing I'd like to
talk about this API is the
result of this API is an array.
It returns an array
of adjustment filters.
Once you have that array,
there's several options
that are available to you.
The most likely scenario is that you're
going to want to chain those filters
together and get an output image.
And you do that using the
following short line of code.
You basically loop over each
filter in the adjustments.
You then set the input image to
be the input image preceding it.
And then you set the image
variable to the output of that.
And then you just loop.
And the idea behind this loop is
that you're chaining the output
to the input to the output to the
input for that array of filters.
You can, however,
use this opportunity to do other things.
You can query each of those filters
and see what the parameter values are.
You could store the names of the
filters and their parameters off
so that if you want to apply the
adjustments at a later time without
incurring the cost of the analysis phase,
you can do so.
Typically, however,
you're just going to chain
the filters together,
and you'll get an output image that's
ready to render using any of the
techniques we mentioned earlier.
So now to give a demonstration,
this is a very short demo of
auto enhancement in progress,
then I'll pass the microphone
over to Chendi again.
Thanks.
So this is a pretty simple demo.
You open up the app,
and there's a bunch of
different images taken with,
in this case, SLR.
And if we just tap on the image--
CI will perform an auto-enhance,
and you can see from the result
that it's increased the contrast,
improved the colors and the saturation.
I think I'll do two more.
This one and that one.
And that's it.
So that's the end of the bulk
of our conversation for today.
I want to thank all of
you for coming today,
and I look forward to seeing all
the great applications that you
build using Core Image on iOS.
If you have any questions,
please contact Alan Schaffer.
Also, if you didn't already see it,
there is a session on capturing from
the camera using AV Foundation on iOS 5.
Thank you all very, very much.